# Basic Web Theories
## Foundation of Internet
- **_Packets_** : when we request a big size of data (videos/images) from a far stored server over internet it doesn’t come as a whole in one single way to our devices. To avoid traffic issues it gets divided in multiple bits and sent to us through multiple routes and then when all the bits reached our devices, they gets arranged in proper order to form the original content. those bits are called <b style="color:pink">Packets</b>.
- But suppose multiple devices are requesting different datas over the same internet source then how can we protect packets from being misplaced with some one other’s packets. the soluition is a combination of Router, IP Adress and MAC Adress. and the whole process is about wrapping and un-wrapping infortmation and information request everytime it reaches a traffic point in the internet route.
- **_DNS_** : <b style="color:darkred">Domain Name System</b> It converts a website name/adress into an IP adress through which that website can have an unique identity in the ocean of internet.

- _**What is CLI?**_ : Command Line Interface is way of coding which enables us to check some input, outputs and functionalities of our code in an interpreter like Terminal or Shell. You can’t do much using CLI, so we can say that it is sort of restricted for developer only use especially for testing and debugging.
- _**What is a Package?**_ : a Package is a collection of various codes built by other developers to help other developers while implementing a repetitive and very common functionality. in coding world, it is called STANDING ON GIANT’s SHOULDERS. some simple package examples can be CHALK and READLINE-SYNC.
- _**What are RegEx (Regular Expressions)**_ : Regular expressions are declared patterns used to match character combinations in strings. They are normally used to filter, match or delete a  particular type of characters from a given string.
## HTML Basics
- **_Absolute Links_** - Links to pages on other websites on the internet are called absolute links.
- **_Relative Links_** - Links to other pages within our own website are called relative links.
- **_Semantic HTML_** - Semantic HTML is a principle in Coding which says that every content we put in our HTML should be under right tag. for an example if we are putting footer then all the footer contents should go under the footer tag. same goes for header, label and so on. now there is a mis conception here, that putting a wrong tag and a good ID or class will make it semantic, but no it doesn’t. It is important for the accessibility point of view of the website. 
- The most important text/tittle of a component should wrapped arround **HEADING** tag.
- **_Differences between Semantic and Non-Semantic HTML with examples_** - semantic version of HTML will give meaning to every element present on the document when someone screen reads the webpage. and Non-semantic version of HTML won’t give any meaning. some semantic examples can be : section, aside, footer, header, table, form. and one non-semantic example will be : div or span.
**_What is API?_** - API is simply is completely different application running in the back end of the website. what it does is that it provides some functionalities or data to the developer. now when the developer wants a user input or user behavior to get processed by another application which is not his code and some output being shown in return, then he uses those data and functionality coming from the API.
**_What is Git? What is GitHub? What is Branching in Git?_** - GIT is a tool which allows us storing our code through it’s techniques and commands. but not just that, we can also keep a track of our changes we have done over the time using this GIT. in coding language GIT is called a version control system. But GitHub is on other hand, is a website that uses this system of GIT to give us developers a good visual way of storing, changing and show casing the code. GitHub is also a place where we can see work of other developers and contribute to them. Now branching is one of techniques GIT offers to us. Branching simply means that when we are changing something in our code, then first we should create a copy of the existing code and then made all the changes in that copy and at last if everything seems fine, then we merge the copy with the original.
**_Use of alt attribute in the image HTML tag_** - _alt_ attribute specifies an alternate text for an image, if the image cannot be displayed. It also helps describing the image to assistive technologies like screen-readers. But a thing to note here is that, if that image solve no purpose than just styling then its alt tag should be removed and to hide it from assistive techs `aria-hidden : true` attribute should be used.
**_What is client-server architecture?_** - Client server architecture is a computing model in which a server hosts, delivers, and manages most of the resources and services requested by the client which is the browsing device.
**_Why we need to Encode the URLs ?_** - URLs can only have certain characters from the standard 128 character ASCII set. Reserved characters that do not belong to this set must be encoded. This means that we need to encode these characters when passing into a URL. Special characters such as `&`,`space`, `!`when entered in a URL need to be escaped, otherwise they may cause unpredictable situations.
**_What is a MIT license ?_** - It is a software license developed by MIT that, grants any person who obtains a copy of the software and associated files the right to use, copy, modify, merge, distribute, publish, sublicense, and sell copies of the software.
**_What is an Open Source License ?_** - An open-source license is a type of license for computer software and other products that allows the source code, blueprint or design to be used, modified and/or shared under defined terms and conditions.